Docs: Add blog post for Iceberg Rust 0.9.0 release (#15744)
apache/iceberg: site/docs/blog/posts/2026-03-10-iceberg-rust-0.9.0-release.md

### Enhanced DataFusion Integration

DataFusion integration continues to expand with DDL and query optimization improvements:

- **CREATE TABLE**: [Native support](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/1972) for creating Iceberg tables through DataFusion SQL, with [schema validation for partition projection](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/2008)
- **DROP TABLE**: [Support for dropping tables](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/2033) through DataFusion SQL
- **LIMIT pushdown**: [Pushes row limits](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/2006) into Iceberg scans to avoid reading unnecessary data
- **Predicate pushdown**: Added support for [Boolean](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/2082), [IsNaN](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/2142), [Timestamp](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/2069), [Binary](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/2048), and [LIKE/StartsWith](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/2014) predicates

> - **Clustered writes**: [Applied SortExec](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/2005) when writing clustered data

Reviewer: This should be part of `insert into` table.

- **MSRV**: [Bumped to Rust 1.92.0](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/2224)
- **Decimal**: [Replaced `rust_decimal` with `fastnum`](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/2063) for 38-digit precision support

## Dependency Updates

- [Upgraded to DataFusion 52.2](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/1997)
- Various updates to Arrow, Parquet, and other dependencies

## Infrastructure Improvements

- **Security scanning**: [Added CodeQL workflow](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/2151) for GitHub Actions security analysis
- **Workflow permissions**: [Added explicit least-privilege permissions](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/2163) to workflows
- **Faster tests**: [Adopted nextest](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/2078) for faster test execution with [parallel integration tests](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/2076)
- **Python tooling**: [Switched to uv](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/2129) for Python dependency management

## What's Next

Work is already underway on several features for upcoming releases:

> - **Storage trait expansion**: With the new trait-based storage architecture landed in 0.9.0, the community is [building additional native storage backends](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/issues/2208) beyond LocalFs and Memory, reducing reliance on external dependencies for common object stores.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Storage trait expansion**: With the trait-based storage architecture landed in 0.9.0, the community is looking to [integrate additional storage backends](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/issues/2208), such as [`object_store`](https://docs.rs/object_store/latest/object_store/), making it easy for users to opt into alternative storage implementations.
```
maybe something like this? @CTTY thoughts?

> - **Table encryption**: [AES-GCM encryption support](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/2026) is in progress, bringing Iceberg's table-level encryption spec to Rust with Java-compatible ciphertext formats. This is the first in a series of PRs to enable encrypted Iceberg tables.

Reviewer: How about posting https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/2183? It has a better picture.
